docs/docker/azure-docker-uav.md, before:

# Azure UAV Docker Setup

Docker install all the repository dependencies as *docker images*.

- The docker images will exist on the remote Azure VM.

Docker shell containers will give the user access to the entire deploy workspace inside a docker container.

- You should be able to do anything inside the docker container that you would do normally do on the host.

All deployer commands should be done on the **localhost**.

## 1. Docker Images

**Create Docker Images**

Follow these steps, **on the localhost**, not on the Azure remote VM. These steps will create the docker image on the Azure remote VM.

        # azure registry login
        az acr login --name subtexplore

        # pull all the docker images from the azure docker registry
        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.docker.registry.azure.pull

        # (optional) stop & remove any previously created docker containers
        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.docker.shell.stop
        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.docker.shell.rm

**Verify Docker Images**

        # ssh into your VM (if not already done so), change the below command to match your VM ssh access
        ssh azure.uav1

        # View the docker images built on the localhost
        docker images

Verify you see the following docker images (in any order):

        subt/x86.uav.cpu.core                                 249324c
        subt/x86.uav.cpu.perception                           249324c
        subt/x86.uav.cpu.superodometry                        249324c
        subt/x86.uav.cpu.ros.melodic                          249324c

Return To Localhost

        # exit the remote VM
        exit

## 2. Docker Containers

**Create Docker Containers**

Follow these steps, **on the localhost**, not on the Azure remote VM. These steps will create the docker container on the Azure remote VM.

        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.core.docker.shell.start

**Verify Docker Containers**

        # ssh into your VM (if not already done so), change the below command to match your VM ssh access
        ssh azure.uav1

        # view running docker containers
        docker ps

Verify you see the following docker containers (in any order):

        uav1-shell

Return To Localhost

        # exit the remote VM
        exit

Commit message:

update to ansiblebooks, not copying over .dsta

docs/docker/azure-docker-uav.md, after:

# Azure UAV Docker Setup

Docker install all the repository dependencies as *docker images*.

- The docker images will exist on the remote Azure VM.

Docker shell containers will give the user access to the entire deploy workspace inside a docker container.

- You should be able to do anything inside the docker container that you would do normally do on the host.

All deployer commands should be done on the **localhost**.

## 0. Enable GPU Images on Remote Hosts

        gedit ~/.dsta/user_config.bash

        # change the type of docker images to use
        export USE_ENHANCED_GPU_DOCKER_IMAGES=true

- This is a bug in the deployment operations. Please remember to return it back to your configuration when the docker image pull on azure remote vm is completed.

## 1. Docker Images

**Create Docker Images**

Follow these steps, **on the localhost**, not on the Azure remote VM. These steps will create the docker image on the Azure remote VM.

        # azure registry login
        az acr login --name subtexplore

        # pull all the docker images from the azure docker registry
        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.docker.registry.azure.pull

        # (optional) stop & remove any previously created docker containers
        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.docker.shell.stop
        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.docker.shell.rm

**Verify Docker Images**

        # ssh into your VM (if not already done so), change the below command to match your VM ssh access
        ssh azure.uav1

        # View the docker images built on the localhost
        docker images

Verify you see the following docker images (in any order):

        subt/x86.uav.cpu.core                                 0.1.1144870
        subt/x86.uav.cpu.perception                           0.1.1144870
        subt/x86.uav.cpu.superodometry                        0.1.1144870
        subt/x86.uav.cpu.ros.melodic                          0.1.1144870

Return To Localhost

        # exit the remote VM
        exit

## 2. Docker Containers

**Create Docker Containers**

Follow these steps, **on the localhost**, not on the Azure remote VM. These steps will create the docker container on the Azure remote VM.

        subt deployer azure.uav.uav1.core.docker.shell.start

**Verify Docker Containers**

        # ssh into your VM (if not already done so), change the below command to match your VM ssh access
        ssh azure.uav1

        # view running docker containers
        docker ps

Verify you see the following docker containers (in any order):

        uav1-shell

Return To Localhost

        # exit the remote VM
        exit
