docs/catkin-basestation.md, before:

# Basestation Catkin Workspace

Setting up the catkin workspace for the Basestation workspaces requires using the `catkin` tool.

There are multiple catkin workspaces that get extended *or linked* in order to fully setup the UAV catkin build workspace.

Assuming you have already setup all your basestation docker containers, please follow the instructions below to setup the UAV catkin workspace.

* * *

## Basestation Catkin Workspace

### 1. Access Docker Container

If you are using an Azure VM, remember to ssh into the VM first.

If you are not using docker containers, you may skip this step.

        # enter the docker shell container on your local laptop host or Azure VM host#
        #   -- its okay to ignore the error if you have not yet built the workspace: error is: 'bash: /home/developer/deploy_ws/devel/...: No such file or directory'
        docker-join.bash --name gui-shell

### 2. Build Common

The common catkin workspace sets up default `cmake` options.

        # == Common Catkin Workspace ==

        # go to the `common` catkin workspace inside the docker container
        cd ~/deploy_ws/src/common

        # list the catkin profiles available
        catkin profile list

        # set the catkin profile
        catkin profile set system76-pc

        # view catkin and cmake configuration
        catkin config

        # build the catkin workspace
        catkin build

### 3. Build Basestation Catkin Workspace

The basestation catkin workspace contains all repositories that are running during SubT, on the basestation.

        # go to the `basestation` catkin workspace
        cd ~/deploy_ws/src/basestation

        # list the catkin profiles available
        catkin profile list

        # set the catkin profile
        catkin profile set system76-pc

        # view catkin and cmake configuration
        catkin config

        # build the catkin workspace
        catkin build

        # exit the container
        exit

        # stop the running container
        docker stop gui-shell

* * *

## Cleanup

You should remove containers when done with its development.

        # stop the running container
        docker stop gui-shell

        # remove the container
        docker rm gui-shell

## Summary

You should now have a built `Basestation` workspace.

- Please notify the maintainer if any of the tutorial steps did not succeed.

Please go back to [`build-tutorial`](build-tutorial.md#Summary) for summary comments.

Commit message:

Readme: update to documentation.
- Reorganizing documentation again, removing duplicate information and
trying to reduce information to read.

docs/catkin-basestation.md, after:

# Basestation Catkin Workspace

Setting up the catkin workspace for the Basestation workspaces requires using the `catkin` tool.

- There are multiple catkin workspaces that get extended *or linked* in order to fully setup the basestation catkin workspace.

Assuming you have already setup all your basestation docker containers, follow the instructions below to setup the basestation catkin workspace.

## 1. Access Docker Container (optional)

**If you are not using docker containers, you may skip this step.**

**If you are using an Azure VM, remember to ssh into the VM first.**

        # enter the docker shell container on your local laptop host or Azure VM host#
        #   -- its okay to ignore the error if you have not yet built the workspace: error is: 'bash: /home/developer/deploy_ws/devel/...: No such file or directory'
        docker-join.bash --name gui-shell

## 2. Build Common

The common catkin workspace sets up default `cmake` options.

        # == Common Catkin Workspace ==

        # go to the `common` catkin workspace inside the docker container
        cd ~/deploy_ws/src/common

        # list the catkin profiles available
        catkin profile list

        # set the catkin profile
        catkin profile set system76-pc

        # view catkin and cmake configuration
        catkin config

        # build the catkin workspace
        catkin build

## 3. Build Basestation Catkin Workspace

The basestation catkin workspace contains all repositories that are running during `SubT` on the basestation.

        # go to the `basestation` catkin workspace
        cd ~/deploy_ws/src/basestation

        # list the catkin profiles available
        catkin profile list

        # set the catkin profile
        catkin profile set system76-pc

        # view catkin and cmake configuration
        catkin config

        # build the catkin workspace
        catkin build

        # exit the container
        exit

        # stop the running container
        docker stop gui-shell


## Cleanup (optional)

You should remove containers when done with its development.

        # stop the running container
        docker stop gui-shell

        # remove the container
        docker rm gui-shell

- The above steps will remove the containers.

- When you continue with development, you will need to re-create the docker containers again.

- You can just stop the docker containers rather than completely removing them, to avoid re-creating them all the time.

- The `docker-join.bash [container-name]` command will enter a stopped container.

## Summary

You should now have a built `basestation` workspace.

- Please notify the maintainer if any of the tutorial steps did not succeed.
