docs/launch-basestation.md, before:

# Basestation Launch

## Basestation Catkin Workspace

### 1. Verify Communication Manager Connection

Please verify you have setup the azure vm communication manager connection IPs

        # open the communication manager config
        gedit deploy_ws/src/common/communication_manager/config/USER_QOS_PROFILES.xml

        # make sure the IPs are added to every 'initial_peers' tag:
        
        <element>10.3.1.1</element>
        <element>10.3.1.11</element>
        <element>10.3.1.12</element>
        <element>10.3.1.13</element>
        <element>10.3.1.51</element>
        <element>10.3.1.52</element>
        <element>10.3.1.53</element>
        <element>10.3.1.54</element>

### 2. Access Docker Container

If you are using an Azure VM, remember to remote-desktop into the VM first.

If you are not using docker containers, you may skip this step.

        # enter the docker shell container on your local laptop host or Azure VM host
        docker-join.bash --name gui-shell

### 3. Launch Basestation

        # load the tmux session
        tmuxp load operations/launch/tmuxp/sim/basestation.yaml

Commit message:

Readme: update to ugv teamviewer readme
-- adding readme instructions for teamviewer readme to ugv launch.
-- update to ugv sim dockerfile, missing rqt dependency
-- adding specific, 'basic ugv sim' tmux launch

docs/launch-basestation.md, after:

# Basestation Launch

## Basestation Catkin Workspace

### 1. Azure Access

        # ssh into the remote VM. Example:
        ssh azure.ugv1

        # view teamviewer info
        sudo teamviewer info

        # get the teamviewer ID
        sudo teamviewer info | grep "TeamViewer ID"

Copy the remote `TeamViewer ID` into your localhost teamviewer "Control Remote Computer" Partner ID.

- *teamviewer password:* `teamviewer`

Once in the remote TeamViewer Window, access the `subt` user's desktop

- Azure VM user `subt` password is: `Password1234!`

If you do not prefer to use Teamveiwer, you can use RDP instead.

### 2. Verify Communication Manager Connection

Please verify you have setup the azure vm communication manager connection IPs

        # open the communication manager config
        gedit deploy_ws/src/common/communication_manager/config/USER_QOS_PROFILES.xml

        # make sure the IPs are added to every 'initial_peers' tag:
        
        <element>10.3.1.1</element>
        <element>10.3.1.11</element>
        <element>10.3.1.12</element>
        <element>10.3.1.13</element>
        <element>10.3.1.51</element>
        <element>10.3.1.52</element>
        <element>10.3.1.53</element>
        <element>10.3.1.54</element>

### 3. Access Docker Container

If you are using an Azure VM, remember to remote-desktop into the VM first.

If you are not using docker containers, you may skip this step.

        # enter the docker shell container on your local laptop host or Azure VM host
        docker-join.bash --name gui-shell

### 4. Launch Basestation

        # load the tmux session
        tmuxp load operations/launch/tmuxp/sim/basestation.yaml

### Summary

Please launch the other VMs (ugv, uav), to see the robots on the basestation RViz.
